welcome to the man of recaps this is
arrow season 4 season 4 begins with
Oliver Queen retired he's with Felicity
now some people call them olicity but I
only say full Oliver he's left the city
in good hands specifically his
ex-girlfriend and little sisters Laurel
Lance has fully taken up her sisters
mantle of the Black Canary and Thea
queen has taken her ex-boyfriend Roy's
costume she's the red arrow and John
Diggle has finally given in and gotten a
superhero name he's sparked in but
there's a new gang in town called the
ghost and they have team arrow outgunned
their leader is damian darhk-- he's half
friendly businessman and half scary mob
boss he is Ra's al Ghul's old rival that
he warned Oliver about last season so
full Oliver leaves their life of
suburban bliss and heads back to
Starling city or a Star City now yeah at
the very end of last season Ray Palmer
was working on the atom suit and
exploded himself and I guess his dream
was always to rename Starling city so
they did it for him by the way he made
Felicity CEO of Palmer tech that's why
they're still riding in limousines cuz
remember Oliver's broke now anyway it's
time for Oliver to suit up this time
he's leaving the sleeves behind now
remember last season the arrow was
wanted so Roy put on the arrow suit and
faked his death to take the heat off
Oliver so even though Oliver's wearing
the exact same outfit minus the sleeves
he's pretending to be a totally new
superhero Green Arrow
yeah but no one's buying it anyway the
Green Arrow fights damian darhk-- but
damien darhk's got magic that's gonna be
a problem but first
Thea queen is overly violent these days
it's probably pit fever a side effect of
being resurrected by the Lazarus Pit
laurels like wait a second you're
telling me the League of Assassins has a
magic jacuzzi that can bring people back
to life why haven't we use this on my
sister Sara yet so they fly to Nanda
Parbat where Malcolm Merlyn is the new
Rachel Ghul he lets him use the pit for
Sarah and it works Sarah's back to life
no one ever stays dead on this show but
because Sarah was very dead she's
totally feral now so Nyssa destroys the
Lazarus Pit she loved Sarah and feels
like bringing her back this Way's an
abomination
so no more resurrections except for Ray
Palmer turns out he didn't blow himself
up he shrunk himself down long story
short the gang rescues him
the atom has ant-man powers now feral
Sera's causing problems so Oliver calls
his old friend Constantine who leads
them in a ritual inside Sara's spirit to
rescue her soul from the pit so Sara's
curative pit fever it's gonna be awkward
having to black Canary's now luckily
Sara's not sticking around cuz there's a
crossover episode with Barry Allen the
flash it's old thing but it leads into a
new spin-off show legends of tomorrow
starring Ray Palmer as the Adam and
Sarah Lance as the white canary back to
Star City anyone running for mayor gets
shot at cuz damian darhk-- doesn't want
a mayor Oliver has to keep saving him so
he figures cut out the middleman he runs
for mayor himself and he calls out
damian darhk-- which makes him real mad
so when Oliver proposes to felicity dark
sends his men to shoot up the limo and
oh no Felicity's hit no one ever dies on
this show but Felicity is paralyzed
she's in a wheelchair now luckily her
superpower is sitting at a computer so
they install a ramp and we're good to go
Thea's pit fever is getting worse the
only way she can stop it is by killing
people and she doesn't want to do that
so she might die but Nyssa comes with an
option she's got some sort of magic
healing potion but she'll only help if
Malcolm Merlyn gives her control of the
League of Assassins which she has no
intention of doing so they're gonna
fight for it
but remember Oliver is technically
married to Nyssa he better look into
getting that an old or something but for
now it means he fights Malcolm Merlyn in
her place and he cuts off his hands to
get the demon head ring Sofia gets cured
and Nyssa realizes the League of
Assassins is kind of evil
so she disbands it Merlyn is pissed at
Oliver now so he joins up with damian
darhk-- he tells dark an epic secret
Oliver has a son yeah he only just found
out too it's a random girl he knocked up
in college that his mom paid to cover it
up and move away so dark kidnaps all of
her son Oliver calls in a superhero
friend vixen she's got a magic necklace
that lets her channel animal spirits she
steals darks magic totem turns out
that's what gives him his powers so when
she destroys it he's vulnerable and
arrow takes him down but Felicity feels
betrayed that Oliver didn't tell her
about his
so betrayed that she calls off the
engagement full Oliver knew and just
then she can walk again it's a miracle
actually no it's science she's got an
employee at Palmer tech this brilliant
guy Curtis she comes to him sometimes
with team arrow stuff and flimsy
explanations just like Oliver did to her
back in season one he eventually
stumbles into their secret lair and he
helps out the team sometimes anyway he
invented some sort of spinal implant
that's letting her walk again now darks
magic idol Oliver has actually seen
before that's right it's time for an
island flashback this season it's a true
Island flashback Argus's next mission
for secret agent Oliver sends him back
to Lian Yu
he's here to take down a group of bad
guys who are growing drugs or something
led by Baron Reiter he pretends to join
them but when he's supposed to kill this
one girl he lets her go cuz he's a good
guy but another worker attacks him and
he has to kill him in self-defense turns
out it was her brother
who they eventually realized he's a spy
and with him for a while but Constantin
gave Oliver a magic tattoo that Baron
Rider needs to enter the secret cave
that's the reason he's here and inside
is damien darhk's idol
it's powered by killing people and
drawing their strength to give you magic
powers long story short oliver in the
girl escaped but she takes the idol it
gives her magic powers so she's able to
take down rider but it's making her evil
so she's like Oliver you have to kill me
but first promise me you'll go to my
hometown in Russia and save it from this
bad guy so watch out for that next
season but for now Oliver kills her oh
it's so sad so in the present Malcolm
Merlyn apparently has a key to the arrow
cave so he steals the idol back for dark
but it's missing a piece now darts
organization is called hive which is the
group that Deadshot told John Diggle
killed his brother but one day they
capture a hive guy and it is John
diggle's brother yeah they didn't kill
him they recruited him diggle's real mad
but turns out hive uses brainwashing
pills to control their people so when it
wears off Diggle starts to trust his
brother again
so in darts breaking out of prison team
arrow brings little Diggle with him and
he betrays them yeah he wasn't
brainwashed he's just a bad guy so with
the missing piece darts got his magic
powers back and he uses them to kill
Laurel Lance he lets the rest the team
go though cuz bad guys are dumb no
Laurel you can't die no one ever really
dies on the show except
Laurel does no more Lazarus pits ho
there's no resurrections laurels gonna
be dead for good or at least the rest of
this season this is actually good news
for Quentin Lance cuz he does his best
acting when one of his daughters dies
that's why they have it happened at
least once a season then darker goes to
John diggle's wife Lyla and takes her
Argus implant by the way Amanda Waller
was killed earlier this season so LYLAS
the new head of Argus so digs a little
brother crossed a line going after
John's family and John kills him he
feels emo about it for a while somehow
the Argus implant gives dark access to
all the world's nuclear weapons his evil
master plan is project Genesis he's
gonna nuke the world and ride it out in
this giant underground city he's made
Felicity can't hack all the world's
nukes by herself so she brings in her
father he's a criminal computer hacker
the calculator and they faced off
earlier this season he may not be the
world's best dad but he's here to help
stop a nuclear apocalypse they managed
to stop all the nukes except one and
there's no way to disarm it Felicity
just retarget Syd from the big city to a
small town thousands died instead of
millions but Felicity still feels emo
about it for a while
Green Arrow fine starts underground city
and long story short blows it up dark is
super pissed and he manages to hack one
more nuke since it's straight to Star
City the city's rioting but Oliver goes
to make a speech and it's like hey stop
writing everyone let's hear what he has
to say he gives such a good speech about
this city being united that the nuke
diverts itself and misses just kidding
it was the smart members of the team
actually saving the day but now it's the
final battle with damian darhk-- and his
magics gonna kick all of his butt but
all of her speech was so inspiring Star
City rises up to help him so then when
dark shades magic Adam Oliver blocks it
yeah he met a shaman earlier who taught
him how to block dark magic but it
didn't work because he had too much
darkness inside himself but now the city
rallying has filled him with light so
dark brings all his minions and there's
a big city brawl I feel like this exact
scene happens in every seasons and yeah
and all of her defeats damian darhk-- he
doesn't kill people anymore but he makes
an exception I know kills him
dark defeated after his bomb deflecting
speech he wins in a landslide Oliver
Queen's the mayor now diggle's feeling
sad about killing his brother so he
retires and Thea's feeling weird
pit fever so she retires to sew team
arrow is down to just all of her and
Felicity who are still broken up by the
way and that's how season four comes to
an end
[Music]